---
title: "Jekyll 101"
layout: post
date: 2019-06-21 15:06
# image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- markdown
- components
- extra
- Jekyll 101
- Hello World
category: blog
author: Prabhakaran
description: Practice Blog post
---


# Hello World

# Hi Markdown

## About

This post has nothing **informative**. Just _experimenting markdown_.
Let me try Markdown.The original Markdown syntax specification can be found [here](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax).

## The Basics

### Line Breaks
To force a line break, put two spaces and a newline (return) at the end of the line.

* This two-line bullet 
won't break

* This two-line bullet  
will break

Here is the code:

```
* This two-line bullet 
won't break

* This two-line bullet  
will break
```

### Strong and Emphasize

**Strong**: `**Strong**` or `__Strong__` (Command-B)  
*Emphasize*: `*Emphasize*` or `_Emphasize_`[^emphasize] (Command-I)

### Headers (like this one!)

	Header 1
	========

	Header 2
	--------

or

	# Header 1
	## Header 2
	### Header 3
	#### Header 4
	##### Header 5
	###### Header 6

### Block Quote

> Angle brackets `>` are used for block quotes.  
Technically not every line needs to start with a `>` as long as
there are no empty lines between paragraphs.  
> Looks kinda ugly though.
> > Block quotes can be nested.  
> > > Multiple Levels
>
> Most markdown syntaxes work inside block quotes.
>
> * Lists
> * [Links][arbitrary_id]
> * Etc.

### Horizontal Rules
--- 

If you type three asterisks `***` or three dashes `---` on a line, I'll display a horizontal rule:

---

#### Table

This is a table:

First Header  | Second Header
------------- | -------------
Content Cell  | Content Cell
Content Cell  | Content Cell

You can align cell contents with syntax like this:

| Left Aligned  | Center Aligned  | Right Aligned |
|:------------- |:---------------:| -------------:|
| col 3 is      | some wordy text |         $1600 |
| col 2 is      | centered        |           $12 |
| zebra stripes | are neat        |            $1 |

The left- and right-most pipes (`|`) are only aesthetic, and can be omitted. The spaces don’t matter, either. Alignment depends solely on `:` marks.

#### <a name="fenced-code-block">Fenced Code Block</a>

This is a fenced code block:

```
print('Hello world!')
```

You can also use waves (`~`) instead of back ticks (`` ` ``):

~~~
print('Hello world!')
~~~


### Inline Formatting

The following is a list of optional inline markups supported:

Option name         | Markup           | Result if enabled     |
--------------------|------------------|-----------------------|
Intra-word emphasis | So A\*maz\*ing   | So A<em>maz</em>ing   |
Strikethrough       | \~~Much wow\~~   | <del>Much wow</del>   |
Underline [^under]  | \_So doge\_      | <u>So doge</u>        |
Quote [^quote]      | \"Such editor\"  | <q>Such editor</q>    |
Highlight           | \==So good\==    | <mark>So good</mark>  |
Superscript         | hoge\^(fuga)     | hoge<sup>fuga</sup>   |
Autolink            | http://t.co      | <http://t.co>         |
Footnotes           | [\^4] and [\^4]: | [^4] and footnote 4   |

[^4]: You don't have to use a number. Arbitrary things like `[^footy note4]` and `[^footy note4]:` will also work. But they will *render* as numbered footnotes. Also, no need to keep your footnotes in order, I will sort out the order for you so they appear in the same order they were referenced in the text body. You can even keep some footnotes near where you referenced them, and collect others at the bottom of the file in the traditional place for footnotes. 

